The Earth Stewardship MIT License (ESMIT)

Copyright (c) 2023 Lily Black a.k.a. [L1lith](https://github.com/L1lith)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software (or anything else being published under the license) and associated documentation files (the "Software" which may or may not refer to literal software), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

1. The Software must be used, either directly or indirectly, for the betterment of the planet Earth and its ecosystem. This includes, but is not limited to, the promotion of environmental sustainability, the conservation of natural resources, and the protection of biodiversity.
2. The use of the Software must take into account the environmental footprint of the the Software. Users ("User(s)" refers to any user(s) of the licensed Software and everyone using the license to license their Software) of the Software are required to minimize the environmental impact of their use of the Software by employing energy-efficient hardware, using renewable energy sources, and/or participating in carbon offset programs to achieve a carbon neutral or carbon negative footprint as well as having a net neutral or net positive effect (ecologically and otherwise) upon the Earth and it's ecosystems.
3. Redistributions of the Software, in any form, must reproduce this license and make it easily accessible to all users (including making the links functional). Anyone you share the Software with must also comply with this license. Please report all violations [here.](https://github.com/L1lith/ESMIT/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&projects=&template=ban-request.md&title=Ban+Request+for+%5BName%5D)
4. License Updates: Lily Black the license author reserves the right to update and modify the terms and conditions of the license from time to time. Upon the release of an updated version of the license, users must immediately agree to and abide by the new terms and conditions. Failure to do so will result in the termination of the user's rights to use the Software, and the user must immediately cease all use of the Software, including any outdated versions. It is the responsibility of the users to track changes to the license. You can view the latest version of the license [here.](https://github.com/L1lith/ESMIT/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
5. Prohibition of Use in Relation to Genocide, Hate Speech and/or human rights violations: The Software must not be used by any party (or any party in association with any other party) that commits, is complicit in, or is silent in the face of genocide, hate speech, and/or human rights violations. Genocide is defined as any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy or displace, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial, or religious group: (a) Killing members of the group; (b) Causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group; (c) Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part; (d) Imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group; (e) Forcibly transferring members of the group to another group or location. Hate speech is any form of expression that promotes, incites, or perpetuates hatred, discrimination, or violence against individuals or groups based on their race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, or disability. This includes, but is not limited to, racism, transphobia, antisemitism, sexism, discrimination based on sexual orientation, discrimination against people with disabilities, people experiencing poverty and unhoused people. It also encompasses the promotion of hateful or hate speech-adjacent conspiracy theories that target, demonize, or spread disinformation about protected groups or individuals.
6. Ban List: The original library author (Lily Black) retains the right to maintain a non-exhaustive ban list of individuals or entities who are prohibited from using the Software. The ban list may include, but is not limited to, those who have violated the terms of this license, engaged in hate speech or genocidal activities, or have been otherwise deemed unsuitable to use the Software at the licensor's discretion. The licensor reserves the right to update the ban list at any time without prior notice. Any user found to be on the ban list will have their rights to use the Software immediately terminated. The ban list can be found here: [Ban list](https://github.com/L1lith/ESMIT/blob/master/ban-list.md) You can request someone be banned or unbanned using the issue tracker on [the ESMIT repository](https://github.com/L1lith/ESMIT/issues).
Any user in violation of any of these clauses (including being on the ban list) will have their rights to use the Software (and any derivative of the software) immediately terminated, and legal action may be taken. The library author may contact you (primarily from an email address ending in webslc.com) and inquire about your compliance to the license. Failure to adequately respond in a timely manner will increase your risk of having your access revoked.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
This license is a variant of the MIT license. It is not made by, supported by, or otherwise affiliated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.